I always enjoy talking with Michael Tsarion
and this was perhaps my favorite conversation yet.
Knowing of Michael's deep knowledge of the Druidic culture,
I asked him if we could switch topics at the last moment
and speak to the reemergence of the feminine.
He kindly obliged and we took a deep look
at the suppression of women throughout history
and the need for the feminine to come to the forefront,
again, for the sake of humanity.
(mellow Celtic music)
Micheal since we last talked I found it rather interesting,
in that a lot of the women,
a lot of them are very outspoken,
some of them are, more or less, well known
in the alternative media,
including friends of mine and myself
are having this experience that something
of a very deep and moving nature seems to be surfacing
and it's taking the shape of a type of anger.
I'm realizing it's from a collective connection
to a larger consciousness, a memory if you will,
not that there's not every good reason
for women to have some of this bubbling to the surface
but there's been a, in your work, a concerted effort
to make sure that women in particular,
stay particularly asleep.
Can you talk to us just a little bit about,
even from an ocultist point of view
and some of what goes on in the darkest reaches
that most of us don't have awareness of?
Well, women have been suppressed in hundreds of ways
for years and that suppression
is not just a physical oppression from outside,
it's the implanting of inferior idioms
within the consciousness of the female.
It also is a misrepresentation of what is femininity,
in general, we may not even have a clear understanding
of what femininity and masculinity are
because a lot of people don't realize
there's a huge difference between what is male and female
and masculine, feminine
and will use those terms interchangeably
which is okay on a street level
but when you're trying to be more,
you know technical about it,
you get into all sorts of problems.
This is actually a huge thing that I hope
that people will think about it
because, in fact, what you're seeing in the world today
are basically people who have murdered
their own femininity and masculinity,
make up for that fact by the cosmetic industry
who provides simulacras, false personas of masculinity
and femininity as they have contrived it.
People conform to those models
and this is what we have now walking about
in society.
So very few people today
have a good sense of their own masculinity and femininity.
You're speaking specifically about women
and that's where I would come in
is that women, today, have lost all sense
of what it is to be feminine.
Because in order to even be able
to coexist in the world, gain success,
they've had to become masculinized.
It's been demanded, it may be unspoken,
meaning that persons parents may not sit down
and give this as a lecture to the average teenage girl,
but society is permeated with that,
that unless you suit up like a guy
unless you cosmetize yourself according to certain models,
that they put on television,
unless you have completely beaten yourself up
about your looks, about your complexion,
about your height, about your level of intelligence,
about your applicability, your intelligence level,
your levels of approval
and so now you have girls
who are entirely fixated on winning that approval.
But of course what happens in society
is we often may want something,
we may have expectations, we may not get it.
So what happens to these adolescents
is that they then jump through all these hoops,
force their parents to buy them things,
conform to what their peer groups are talking about,
and micro-analyze all the media out there
in order to fit these preposterous stereotypes
and then not get the very approval
from a pyschopathic, broken society
that was the promissory note.
But isn't it designed to make sure
that that approval is never given.
Yes it is and that is the crux of the then
where the neurosis comes in,
because when we don't get the approval
that we falsely need,
I mean my work ultimately works on why
we would even need that approval,
but that's another area.
Since you do need it,
since you're whole psychology
is geared towards receiving it, you will do two things.
One, you will do anything, including self-murder, to get it.
You'll become a completely acculturated person
because you feel that I will get it
if I jump through these hoops,
if I look like the latest model,
if my speech is, you know,
the way that I speak is born from television lingo,
if I mimic and if I conform.
The other thing is then
when you find out that you're not getting the approval
then comes the inevitable neuroses
and it's at this point, when the neurosis sets in
that big brother is watching.
This is what big brother's hoping for,
he's not really empowered
while you're going through the early stages.
He is empowered when you start becoming neurotic,
because the neurotic individual
is far more susceptible to control.
This affects women more than men
because men, historically,
have been able to out project or project their anger,
because you were talking about anger
and this is all satellite to these emotions.
Men have been able to bounce a basketball,
kick a football around, have a bar fight,
go hunting, go off to war if necessary,
kill entire peoples and all the rest of it
in order to exercise and expatiate
all of this pent up emotion and anger and so on.
The difference is that women
have not been allowed to do that, historically.
They introject, of course now the introjection
plays in yet to another leviathan
which is the big pharma,
because when you introject anger
you have skin breakouts, you have bad eyesight,
you will have a whole cocktail of other,
mostly biological issues, including anorexia by the way
which is self hatred, expressed outwardly, or bulemia
and all the other cocktail.
It's a slow suicide of sorts.
Well it is, ultimately.
Then what happens is big brother's watching
because he knows that most women, up until now,
which brings us to your point
have always been introjecting,
but as Freud and Jung always said,
you can only repress to a certain extent.
You can only introject to a certain extent
until the sump gets completely full
then it's gonna explode outwardly.
Which I don't believe is entirely a bad thing
because of all pathologies, one is just replacing the other
or one is slightly less bad than the other,
you see it's all a matter of scale.
The thing is though, if women as you were saying,
are starting to get either over,
the introjection is reaching it's end.
There's only one avenue left
and that is to start projecting.
I'm in favor of all emotions being accepted
and being, because I advocate healthy relationships
with what are mistakenly called darker emotions.
They're only darker because you won't look at them,
you won't shine the light of consciousness onto them.
Now, there's a problem because if women
don't know how to healthily project their anger
and these fantastic emotions--
Which they don't.
Which they don't, which is critical,
into art, into ascetics, into sport,
into something that's building them up
by bringing them in touch with their own creativity.
Then of course they will,
another form of neurosis,
another form of pathology will be created
in which it might be dysfunctionally projected.
This has implications for children,
this has implications for just driving down the freeway,
more road rage, you know it has a sociological implications.
But then we have to look at
is why is a sea-change happening?
There's deeper questions in all of this,
it's very good, I always advocate in my work
you shouldn't be okay with injustice,
you shouldn't be smiling depressively,
if you see things that are broken and corrupt
you should rebel against it.
So if that's what's happening
and there's this outpouring of emotion
because people are now sick of the cosmetics,
the girls are waking up to realize,
I'm not gonna conform, it's no good,
I want to be me.
Who am I, I don't want to conform to all my peer groups,
I'm not interested in what the media
is broadcasting, I sense that it's rotten.
Then if they don't have the bridge to move it over,
unfortunately there's always a grey area
between a period of change
and this is very difficult.
In fact, we're finding it in a broader context,
and I talk about this in my work on 2012,
is that in this 13 year countdown cycle to the date of 2012,
where there's a massive shift taking place
from what might be described,
if you'll permit me to astrological jargon,
from a saturnian, masculine, patriarchal,
phallocratic modality
into the more uranian, piscean plutonic.
People who are under the saturnian martian solar paradigm
can't just change overnight
any more than anyone who says anything can change overnight.
So what the person has to deal with,
what the addict has to deal with
is this grey area which is extremely uncanny
and very disconcerting
and we don't have any models in our world for that.
Shamanic traditions do,
they'll guide you through it,
they tell you about the wasteland, the wilderness,
Moses going through the desert,
Theseus going into the underworld,
King Arthur when the grail is missing,
the whole land dies and turns to snow
and the knights lose their power and their potency
or Sampson losing his hair.
There's this grey area that's known in the mythos,
known in the fiction, but we don't know anything about it
in this fast paced, hypermanic world.
So my message is be okay with emotions,
be okay with coming out,
realize it's a healing process
but watch out for that grey area
where you don't know how to let go
of the martian, solar, saturnian
and wait to be guided
to show you how to adopt that new modality.
Because a lot of women
are being drugged right now,
that is the opiate, it's psychoactive drugs.
Yeah, and of course
if you don't mind me saying it,
it is also very much part of what religion has done,
because we have to learn how to identify the very forces
that have kept both men and women
in this polarized state.
All religion is based on very powerful motifs,
for instance to cut a long story short,
the chemical wedding.
The supreme androgyny of the nucleaction
of both masculine and feminine,
not male and female, those are stereotypes,
those are biology.
But each individual, every man carries within him a woman,
this was shown beautifully in the movie Life Force.
There's an image of the perfect woman within our minds.
In fact in Celtic mythology,
or I should say more correctly Irish mythology,
they personify those archetypes as literally Goddesses.
They represent the land and the sky
but they also represent a part of a man
that he has to unite with.
This is why the hair was long, kings wore long hair,
the pharaohs wore their lapels long,
the Merovingians wore the mane of the lion,
partly because it was a sign of kingship,
but partly because it identified you
with the feminine principle.
The Native American Indians go through the sun dance
and other rituals, why?
To suffer pain that the woman experiences
when giving birth.
So these rites and rituals are to help you,
not only deconstruct the hard in femininity,
the hard in masculinity,
so that the real chemical wedding can take place.
Christianity and Judaism and Islam
and all these religions co-opted this,
skewed it so that they then have this marriage ritual,
physical marriage ritual
which is an entire parody of the chemical wedding,
but they sell it to you,
basically in a glorified slavery way--
Uh-huh, white fluffy dresses.
Yes, and their dresses, their costumes or their regalia,
the designs of the churches, the salt water,
all of that stuff.
Then you step down a level
and you find that the entire corporate advertising world,
the world of the merchant, the mercantile people,
have done the same thing.
I was showing examples of this in the talk,
you know of how the male and female's portrayed
in the movies and also in advertisements.
But what's really being talked about there,
are not these inane stereotypes but what's behind it,
the archetypes of the masculine and the feminine.
Because the last thing that these people want
is for a person to start doing that holy work.
Because the moment that you're taught how
to do it yourself, you dispense with religions,
you don't need them anymore
because you realize you are the temple of the truth
or the temple of all of God.
Another way to look at this problem
is to ask the question, what was the woman's duty
before the whole thing got skewed?
Before she had to conform to these role models
to succeed in the saturnian system.
In fact one guy brought--
pull out again and say,
what was mankind, all of humankind's job?
if this road, this diversion, into technology
and anti-natural thought pattterns
and self-less, you know this collectivism,
say all those pernicious things that we should know about
are pernicious, they're false.
The question is always then,
what is man meant to be doing,
what is women really meant to be doing?
That question is much easier to answer
if you examine women.
It's much harder to say what a man's real job is,
if he's not Arnold Schwarzenegger or Ronald Reagan.
If he's not a scientist and a sort of like a hunter--
If he doesn't have a business card.
He's not bringing home the meat,
I can't think of what he must be doing.
What, sitting under a mushroom and meditating,
like a Taoist, see we lose it.
However, we obviously know from anthropologists
that the female were the keepers of the wisdom,
we know this from Marija Gimbutas
and so many other great scholars.
So in other words what's happening,
how does this tie into the phenomenon
you're speaking of in the modern world,
because this plutonic, or let's say countdown to 2012,
whatever tradition you're coming from
has different languaging for all of this,
what happens if this expatiation of the anger
and this outpouring, is a cleansing process
to get that holy grail, the female,
back into her femininity, not as when we had feminism
as a rebellion against the male,
but an integration with a higher form of femininity
which ultimately is a unification with the masculine.
See a spiritual move, I believe that's happening.
These changes are plutonic
and Pluto always goes to the deepest recesses of the being
to find what's there, what's growing there.
Whatever rank weeds and whatever is not sustainable
it will extract it, clean it off and find what's precious
and replant that.
So that's really the good news about this,
particular, astrological cycle.
If people get with it,
if people get with it on a mental level,
otherwise they're in that grey area we talked about
and they'll get traumatized
and then miss out on the guidance.
One of the ways
in which this is showing itself among young girls,
is an extreme rebellion, as you were saying,
against the advertising
and backlash against the advertising industry
and the brainwashing to be the superficial feminine,
right down to becoming as masculinized as any man.
One of the phenomenon that is happening
even on YouTube is girl fighting,
I mean rough, tough,
punching each other in the face, girl fighting.
I mean this is obviously a somewhat distorted backlash
to the phenomenon that you're talking about, but--
Big brother knows that this is gonna happen,
they have their fingers on the pulse
of all of these psychic dynamics.
They're ready to create another arena,
so that you could divert it, you know they go
"Over here, this is the way you can handle it."
This happened even when women were forced to wear pants
and there's good parts and bad.
But even the cosmetics, about getting women away
from a healthy sense of masculinity.
Then feminism, most of the feminists were Fabians,
funded and paid to distort femininity in another way,
with the promise that we're introducing you to it.
It was just man-hate under another guise.
Ann Russo said it was essentially created,
it was a Rockefeller agenda
to create more people onto the tax roles,
get the women working.
Yeah, Kate Millet was an absolute bonafide psychotic.
she spent time in a lunatic asylum
and stuff like that, yeah.
She was easily, easily manipulated
into doing what they wanted.
There's something else that comes in
about, this would have been in the mid 1960s,
when some of this was starting to take seed,
one of the things I've thought of many times
and you and I talked about this off-camera,
which is really appalling,
is the new Levi's ad.
But let's go back to when Levis really caught on
because I was a young girl in the United States
at that time and I remember
exactly when myself and my pod, we were identical
all started wearing Levis at the same time.
This would have been around 1963, 1964,
at the same time there was an agenda
that was uncovered that another person gave me
that was a matter, it's in the congressional record,
about the larger, essentially, Marxist agenda
that was going to be foisted upon the American people,
almost every point of which has already taken place by now.
This whole thing about Levis, Levi,
this utilitarian type of clothing
that we're all to stuff ourselves in
and do up to this very day,
right down to the iconography
and the most recent advertisement by Levi.
Can you talk about your perceptions
of what this utilitarian blue cloth means
to us as feminine and masculine?
Well, it sends a message on one level
that don't be showy,
dress down, be normal,
this kind of idea.
But like in anything, it's not so much the product,
the product may be good, it may be bad,
it may be meaningless.
My interest is always
is that this commercial advertising shell
that sells anything, be it toothpaste or soap or jeans.
I'm worried about the name Levi
cause I know where that word comes from.
I haven't looked into it,
it may be a legitimate name, Levi Strauss,
but the fact that it became a corporate logo
sets it into another field of analysis.
Tell us about that.
Well, Levite.
Levite?
It's old testament, 501 is Gematria for phallus,
for penis.
Most famous jeans of Levi's 501--
Really?
I should know that, I'd never heard that till now.
Yeah, 501 is Gematria, Hebrew Gematria for the phallus.
That's what I started wearing,
everyone wore 501s.
Because the woman is being conformed to act like a man.
The flesh of the woman is also,
at this time, being constricted in very harsh cloth
and covered which is really antithetical to our skin.
That's right.
But remember they also think of,
phallic, you can have a word phallic,
which is referring to the genitals themselves
and then you have ithyphallic,
which means any phallic looking thing.
But any phallic looking thing like a monument
or the human body.
The human body is ithyphallic
so the clothes that then clothe that body
are either gonna be a surrogate feminine symbol
which is why the popes and the cardinals
wear the feminine robes, it's tied into the same thing
or in daily secular life,
you'll see them trying to stuff us into Levi jeans,
where women are making that attractive
and all the men in those ads are actually androgynous men,
they may look hard-bodied, actually,
but they're not, as a matter of fact.
The women in the advertisements
watching the guy wash his Levis,
if you look at the way they filmed that,
they're actually having these girls,
really, look into a mirror of who they'd like to be.
It's not a real male,
it's a image of a male in a girl's mind,
so we're into the realm of psychology, you see?
Yes, it's very androgynous,
It's very deep.
The latest ads are extremely androgynous.
Sure they are, sure they are.
And there is the push towards violence,
there's the half-sunken, half-submerged sign,
America blinking in and out, a neon sign.
I don't know if you've seen this one
with Walter, famous, famous poet, rebel poet,
Walt Whitman supposedly an old--
I have seen it.
Supposedly an old wax seal of his voice.
America, and it's always black and white,
yeah, God what a horrible,
how dare they even use that man's poetry
in that context, but don't even get me started--
Oh, he's gotta be rolling over--
(laughing)
But don't even get me started on how they use
not only a false nostalgic, pseudo nostalgic,
Speilburgesque, black and white images
of a golden, glowing America which never existed.
Don't get me started on how they use classical music
and debauch it to sell silver toothpaste, or some nonsense.
How they use femininity, decapitated women,
animals, nature, the rest of it,
glorified images of grandparents sucking toffees
with a little kid in the rocking chair.
Did this ever happen?
Are we in the world of the living and the sane?
No, we're in the realm of Hollywood and Madison Avenue.
Why do think in Spielberg's,
in umpteen movies that he's made, keeps referring,
not only, to these fake nostalgic images of the past,
like he does constantly in Indiana Jones
and even in other films that he's done,
he's retro, he's very retro in his movies.
He will even have images in his movies of other movies.
In Indiana Jones and the Chrystal Skulls
his partner turns up on a Harley dressed like Marlon Brando.
Does anybody notice
what is going on in this ridiculous thing?
I saw another movie, I think it was Demolition Man,
in which the female cop, lieutenant,
they're all retro because they're so future,
that they have the quaint,
they listen to the little jingles on the radio,
it's an interesting film
and they have these quaint, romantic interests in the past.
But, actually, on a sub-textural level,
when she takes the Sylvester Stallone character
into her office while they're looking on the computer
or something, in the background are posters of Die Hard.
In that same movie, Demolition Man,
when Sylvester Stallone character
and the lady cop are driving in her car, she says
that in the past Arnold Schwarzenegger became the president
and they have this little weird scene
about you're kidding me.
So again another "in" movie reference in a movie
and people think that's Hollywood, that's cool.
No, it's not, that is saying
that you have now entered the world of reality TV.
Meaning TV has become your reality.
Reality doesn't exist.
I was up in Trafford Mall,
I talked in Bath in March of this year, 2010,
and then I went with a friend up to Manchester.
The biggest spectacle up there was this gargantuan Mall,
because you gotta see this--
I haven't seen it.
And he's telling me you gotta see this
cause you're just not gonna believe it,
the symbolism.
It's got every Greek God that the mind could dream up--
In Manchester?
Yeah, in Manchester at a place
where the Manchester United Football Team
used to play, Trafford.
Well they built this palace, Versailles,
and here you go, slepping up with your shopping bags
and you look like you're going up the gardens
of Versailles Palace.
You walk in and there's immense chandeliers,
you've got spiral staircases and marble,
everything is just plants and goddesses
and weird occult phrases and solar disks
and rams head and Bacchus
and hearts, Christian red heart of Jesus
and I've got photographs, I took meticulous photographs
of all of this.
I'm not even including the architecture itself
or the fact that the murals or the names of the shops,
we're leaving that out.
We're just talking about floor design, mosaics,
gods and goddesses, Kabilism.
What's this all about?
Half the people in it
haven't the foggiest idea about Greek and Latin,
Greek and Roman Gods and yet here they are in a palace, why?
Is to make your little hovel, sitting in your home,
a secondary home, we don't want you to be at home
in that little box that we've given you.
Come and drink coffee in this beautiful palatial place.
Do you know that they even have gazebos, inside?
Did you know that they had a ship motif
with a band playing on the stage,
as if you're out on the ocean on a cruise?
Then at night, in the daytime the roof is clouds,
as evening falls in real-time, real life,
stars come out inside the mall.
So in other words, these people said--
It's kind of like Las Vegas,
the Paris and--
Yeah, that was the first time I've ever experienced this.
I'm blown away and we sat there and observed.
Yeah, it's disorienting.
Yeah, and what it's really doing is saying
forget reality, forget nature, we are facsimile,
we're making a facsimile of it.
The Taco Bell looked like Tutan Kamen's--
(laughing)
I'm not joking you.
They had a Mayan design on like Pizza Hut
or something like that.
I've got the photographs,
every thing was designed on temples and spiritual things.
They had the Mayan calendar,
they had Quetzalcoatl, they had Horace,
they had they're Pepsi and Coke machines in the tolilets
designed like the temple at Dendira,
(laughing)
I'm not joking you--
I've got to go see that.
Everybody is swimming around in this place,
inwardly sort of, partly liking the euphoria,
partly turned on because it's spiritual,
I mean you've got pictures of Hathor and Isis on the wall,
it is spiritual.
And it's alluring to one aspect of your mind
but it's deeply disturbing to another
because it's not the real thing,
it's not holy, it's just food and garbage.
So this creates this great inner schism
and again coming back to a more primitive level
you don't want to be at home.
You can come and eat here, you can walk around,
you can take your girlfriend out,
you can sit and listen to the band,
you can watch the stars change,
the clouds will come out.
Suddenly you prefer this simulacra, better.
John Badliard the French philosopher
said that's exactly what's gonna happen.
As man surrounds himself with the more plastic,
as he takes his kids around Toys-R-Us
and just has all these gizmos and gadgets and robots
and cyborgs and his TV has a million romo-controls
and blueberries and Blackberries and whatever,
you will become as artificial
as the world that surrounds you,
which is what's happening now,
I said at the talk, conversation is a dead art.
You ask somebody, "Is anybody sitting in this seat?"
They look at you as if you've just fallen out of the sky.
Right, you've offended them.
They're afraid and they're fidgeting with a gadget,
cause anybody they talk to or look at has to be
through the means of a impersonal gadget.
There's no such thing as a conversation,
person-to-person, anymore.
It has to be by way of some technical device.
How does this tie into the feminism?
I showed a picture of a woman,
you know the typical cyborg,
one of these so-called pop singers
and I use that in as loose as possible connotation,
Beyonc, or whoever it might have been,
who's the blond who's all famous now?
This hideous monstrosity that loves blood and death?
I'm not really to up, who is it?
Lady Gaga, half cyborg, half herself, so to speak.
I try to analyze this for the audience
and I said, what is that really showing?
What do these images show,
does it not show the whole thing
that is happening in our society today?
In which the feminine has been,
as we talked about what was women meant to be?
Well I'll tell you what women is,
woman is a threat, woman has always been a threat.
Woman is higher on the ontological ladder than man
because she gives birth as the gods give birth.
Gods give birth to the human race
but woman gives birth to man.
So man is below woman in that sense
that he can't give birth.
Technology is his way to rival
the female power of giving birth.
Woman therefore, has always been a threat.
What she represents.
Now the individual woman's threat is minuscule
but archetypally, racially,
over the millenia that we've lived,
the archetype of the female, which Jung named Anema
and there's other languaging for this,
becomes a very, very demonic and threatening thing
to the hardened masculine,
who will do anything but integrate.
She's not only a threat, she's a mysterious female.
Right, the book of Tao Te Ching
said that she is the mysterious female,
the everlasting female.
This mystery is the secret of it all.
The mystery which is nature,
ultimately is impenetrable to man,
what's called in scientific lingo, negentropic.
They can't find the plug-in switch,
how does the sun rise, how does the clouds pass,
how does this tree grow out of mud?
How does this tree grow out of mud and become that?
Where's the switch?
So science is looking for the switch
to find the secret of the power of nature.
Nature's negentropic, which means self-sustaining,
everlasting, without life, without death.
The masculine hardened, perverted, psychopathic mind
wants the secret of that power.
Ties into Mary Shelley's Frankenstein thing
and things we can't have time to explore.
It's a very well known motif in the
Gothic horror fiction genre.
Since they can't find it
and since they're ontologically lower than women
on the ontological scale,
they're technology is their way of rivaling the female
and they're saying since the female is uncontainable,
unknowable, impenetrable, we will create
the cyborg technology version of the female
because that's programmable,
that's understandable, that's just circuits.
Watch us create all humanity in this
and we'll create the housing project
which is the global village for this.
So what is happening on the archetypal level,
on the higher level, is the death of femininity
and the continuing war against the female,
technology being the weapon that has constantly been used,
age upon age to rape her of her ultimate power.
Okay, Michael, is that fatalistic, is it all over,
are we done for?
No, there's something else rising.
Right, because the thing is
that that very need to upscale the weaponry
shows you that something else is taking place.
In response to something.
It shows you that, yeah,
the other is about to make it's presence known.
What it also means is that all this other stuff,
remember we talked about the girls
getting sick of the cosmetics and sick of what TV's giving.
Then on another level, on this higher level,
even part of us is getting sick of the simulacra.
Because an idea of reality
can only last a certain amount of time.
We talked on a previous interview
and we mentioned that evil has within it
the seeds of its own destruction.
Any thing corrupt, unjust is born to fail,
is born to crumble.
We're in that very age now,
so all this new machinations and moving
and saber rattling and all these new machinations
of the dictators is because they know
that the ground from under them is changing.
If we don't realize that, we lose hope and they win again.
So what we have to realize is that the forces of nature
can never be defeated, they literally are negentropic,
there is no "on" switch, that only exists in the ego,
that's the ego world and that's the world of the technology
that has on and off buttons
and controllable components
and programmable components.
Because of this ancient, and goodness knows,
that's there's this whole other question
of even how ancient it is,
but even leaving that aside, that ancient antipathy,
not between male and female as it has been,
I'll go easy,
I'll say somewhat misguidedly represented in front of us.
The war has been between masculine and feminine,
which is within each of us,
it's not just a polarized thing at all.
It's to suspend or permanently
delay the ultimate chemical wedding
which is the reason why we exist.
Man on this planet, Aristotle called it entelechy,
the natural movement of this to that.
When you plant a potato, it becomes a potato not a daffodil.
When you plant an oak it becomes an oak, not an elm.
Within the potentiality, the seed, is the end
and he used the Greek word entelechy to say,
in the seed is it's final goal.
The fractal people know all about this,
they worked it out now.
So the thing is that also psychologically, biologically
and humanly, it's the same.
Within the human being is the God.
Within the human being is the Buddha.
Within a human being is the enlightened one,
the Magus, the wizard, the great one,
the high one, the elder.
And whether you like it or not,
and no matter how many boulders you put on top of it,
no matter how many dead ends you go down,
no matter how many distractions you get into
and this was brought up beautifully
in the movie Zardoz, by John Berman.
No matter how much technology you build,
no matter how many walls, no matter how many vortexes,
no matter how many lies, no matter what you do
that entelechy is going to continue.
And no matter what kind of psychization, global village,
silicon revolutions you create, you cannot stop that process
because it's way deeper than thought.
It's way deeper than mind.
It's deeper than emotion,
it's something that is emoting the emotion.
Absolutely, these are only the branches and flowers
of something infinitely deeper.
Heidegger put it this way, he said,
"Thinking is one step later than being."
You have to exist before you can think,
I mean, in one way it's a no-brainer.
But unfortunately the greatest philosophers
spent hundreds of years, trying to work it,
and never got there.
And then he said reason, which is an attribute of thought
is one step later, again.
So how can reason and how can even thinking
know the mysteries of being?
It's like a three-year-old knowing
it's mother has a personality and a life
and a youth and all these interests.
The child is incapable of understanding that,
it's just not possible.
So all the scientism, all the religions
are attempting to use reason, and I'm not against reason,
I'm actually an advocate of reason,
but within a practical sphere of influence.
I also know where reason's limits are.
Yes, and not to the exclusion of the being.
Right, what has happened is that women,
men have been forced to conform
to very impractical forms of reason.
And then we have another split,
reason and emotion, mind and heart.
Once you've started on dualism it just keeps going, forever,
until you come back to these fundamental understandings.
So getting back to what we were talking about.
This negentropic antological movement cannot be altered.
Big brother and anyone who buys into that mode of thought,
in other words, anyone who shares
their psychopathy is deadly afraid of it,
and I'll tell you why.
It's because before you can have a chemical wedding
you must experience a chemical divorce.
It's the opposite of normal life,
first you get married, then you get divorced.
Right?
(laughing)
This is opposite, in spiritual terms
everything must die, before you can inherit her.
You gotta meet Shiva
before Shaklti bothers opening the door, right?
[Voiceover} Right.
The religions go, well that's a bit of a problem,
I know, we'll don ourselves up as Shakti,
we'll have all of her trappings.
To somehow bypass that necessary step--
Yes, to create another simulacra.
To create the allusion
that we can bypass that step.
Right and I believe, now,
it is, it's not my belief,
it's becoming unsustainable to everyone
all over the world.
It is.
So, there gig, they're trying to think,
"What are we gonna do now?"
We're gonna have to sell out and move shop,
Age of Aquarius and age of awakening,
oh damn, we might be out of business soon.
So in came the New Age,
in comes a bunch of other bogus Spineract stuff.
In will come a regression, like we talked about earlier,
to hardened forms of religion.
Because when the softer, more egalitarian
are all against religions.
But once the egalitarian models start weakening
there's a fear reaction, as we've seen,
Right, go to the safe and known.
Right and then you have,
you know big brother will bring out a champion
like a George Bush or an Obama,
with a big smile on their face
and a big stick behind their back
to make sure that the egg you want
to conform or collectivize in yet another way.
My work deals a lot in all these elements
of that make you collectivize.
So the chemical divorce is part of a package
of spiritual evolution, Shamans knew this,
the elders, the Druids knew this.
We talked about the Druids before,
one of their ideologies
was that you have to die to everything
before she will come to you.
Now who is she gonna come to first?
Well, she's a she, so I would assume that the feminine
is in closer ontological proximity, than the masculine.
The masculine's going to get it as well,
but in this spiritual, hate to use the word hierarchy,
but whatever, in this continuum
the feminine is the most perceptive.
If you study the part of the Tarot, Aeon,
it's also called judgement in the Rider-Waite deck
and if you also pull out card six, known as the Lovers,
you'll see something very interesting
and that is there's three figures,
a woman, a child and a man.
Each time it's the woman's head who's looking at Divinity
and the man is looking at the female on both of those cards.
Divinity is either blowing a trumpet,
in other words bringing down spiritual energy
and in the mountains in the back
the woman's head is the one above.
She is the divine mediator, remember we said,
"What is it that the woman's duty was?"
Et cetera, et cetera.
She is the mediator or conduit for that knowledge.
What has happened
since the advent of the hierarchical religions
is that's been cut off, drastically.
They murdered witches, they murdered anyone,
any elders in my country and others they did it
and they stopped it, they stopped that flow.
Then let's shift focus again
and look at it psychologically
and it brings me right back to what you were talking about.
If woman is the female and the feminine
and let's embrace, let's also say the woman
is the conduit for this divine revelation
and it will reach the male, masculine mind,
however the message for this age, right now,
is that the woman first has to fill her own chalice up
before she can--
To really, truly embody the feminine,
once again.
Right, yes, because once you say conduit,
well that just sorta like a neuter thing,
oh, I'm just a conduit.
No, no, no, it's a conduit
but first you must be imbued in it, first.
So in other words,
women are now the first ones to be tested by guess who?
Her, the nameless one.
So your anger, the thing that you're noticing in the women
is the beginning of women being recalled back.
Demeter is calling Persephone out of the underworld.
She's saying, "Remember the job?
"Stop following the males, we got work to do."
Oh what was that again, right.
So the awakening of the feminine
which is Arthur after they find the Grail,
the world comes to life again, right?
But look at how much death and winter
they had to go through before they inherited it again.
And the chalice and the keeper of who?
Three maidens, right.
So here we go,
but I believe that the call goes out to the feminine
and that includes men.
The feminine man is included in this.
Yes, the feminine aspect of men, yes.
But to the female as well,
therefore if the females of the world are found wanting
as they possibly may be,
then we have a problem, we have to resolve that issue.
That's another thing to look at,
but if all goes well and women,
because they have it ancestrally,
start looking and answering this call
and they're able to work with it
then comes in the kind of energy that is required
you see, to build the roots, the foundation.
Pluto, excavates and gets rid of all the dirt
and all the rubbish and all the nonsense.
But then you have something to fill,
you have a hole to re-seed.
That's when that feminine, liquid, natural energy
needs to flow, it's not man's job.
I said in the talk, women bring children,
boys and girls into the world,
men prepare the world fit to live in for those children.
So we have different roles, different dynamics.
Feminism blurred all this on purpose.
They made a carrot to make it,
and I'm not doubting them,
women did need that level of empowerment.
Well, there was a strengthening
that had to occur.
Yeah, yeah, I've read and I've studied them for years,
I mean I'm a big fan of Camille Palli and people like that,
but the thing is that I always sensed
that what was behind it was a deeper, darker agenda.
From this dark, poison, higher-up using certain women
who were from these royal families
to teach the women, give them the carrot
so that ultimately greater, darker evil could be done
which is to turn off the female from her spirituality
so that she ceases to be this conduit
because they're ahead of us,
they know what's happening.
They know what's coming,
they know that Pluto is coming,
that energy is to excavate, to deconstruct
and then they know that,
where's that liquid, vital, mercurial, silver energy
gonna come from, right?
This is been spoken about in umpteen films as well,
The Nucleus of the Sun and the Moon,
there's many ways of languaging this.
In the Yin Yang symbol,
in the white is the black, in the black is the white.
A nucleation, almost saying,
"Well then what is blackness and what is whiteness?"
It's an incredible thing, the whole
idea of all magic, all ritual, all yoga,
all spirituality was the nucleation.
The Buddhists, it's false, it's all false,
it's just masculinization under another name.
Hinduism, you know, Christianity,
look at Islam, look at Judaism.
I can show you chapter, line and verse,
all their hatred of women, their denigration of the female,
and also of the feminine,
while they're walking around in flowing robes
with the long hair.
To usurp that role, falsely.
Usurping it, absolutely.
They did it in the Goddess,
the Druids were entirely wiped out
because of this very purpose.
In fact there's, I wish we could get into it,
there's many great stories
that even predicted that this was gonna happen.
What now has to be the message is
is the woman has to learn how to turn inward
and embrace and integrate
all that dark, allegedly dark, energy that they're feeling.
They have to marry it,
they have to let it flow over them, own it.
Yes, own it.
Own it, right.
And this includes owning the wildness
of that uncertainty because these feelings
have to go to a different level
than how they've been integrated before.
Right, but what happens
if the architects of control step in
and go, "No, we know how to Canelize it,
"what we want from you is more man-hate."
That's no good.
Feminism 2.0, oh gee, it's gonna happen again,
what are we gonna do, pal?
What're we gonna do, guys?
Then they say,
"Well, we just deflect it like we did before."
Women, blame men, we will now show you
the object of your hate.
It's your fathers again.
And then the whole viscous cycle will start again.
But, more than that, women have learned to hate themselves,
because as we said, the whole media, the cosmetic stuff
is designed to put these absolutely unbelievably,
actually they're psychotic,
but on the surface they look gorgeous and wonderful
and attractive and famous and glitzy
and then the woman can't meet that model,
or whatever it is, the false model
and then they beat themselves up.
So there's self-sadism there,
like I said, oppression and repression.
You're repressing yourself,
then there's oppression out there
and all of this is to do
is to stave off the real chemical wedding
so that the religions, the corrupt saturnian, solar,
martian institutions remain
as powerful as they've always been.
Go Pluto.
They don't want Pluto,
Pluto represents the entire melt-down
of their entire fabric.
So, it sounds to me
like you're feeling pretty hopeful about this.
You're seeing that it's inevitable.
That this reversal of the everything
that has been spun into motion
by architects of control ultimately will have to occur.
It's nature, nature will prevail.
It always does and as we said
it's part of the mind, it's part of this early trauma
that got us to have antipathy to nature.
There's so many traditions that have language for this,
I've kind of invented a new one,
I refer in my Disciples of the Mysterium work,
but really, it really nothing new
it's coming out of existential psychology of outer rank
and Eric Fromm and Victor Frankel
and Freud to a certain extent.
It's just a re-languaging in modern terms
of man's, when man was traumatized
in his consciousness that sorta set the ball
of psychopathy rolling
and our civilizations are the product of that psychopathy,
it's almost like the ego had an evil twin.
That I call mysterium, which is the need to have
fictionalized, fantasmagoric, images of God,
of reality and so forth and so on.
But without me getting into all of that
the essence of the ego, the root of the ego
and certainly the root of this mysterium concept
is antipathy to nature and it's very simple to understand.
When nature erupts around you
and destroys everything,
we're talking tidal waves, boulders falling from the sky,
meteors, I can take you and point to them,
even they're in Ireland, the whole landscape is--
The volcano, all of it.
Right and we know it's there,
you know, Carolina, Georgia is just pock marked with it.
There's been devastation's on this planet
that nobody could ever imagine.
Obviously you participated in that,
they weren't just sitting in an easy chair watching it.
In the aftermath of that
which itself was thousands of years
it left such an antipathy that you rose up against us,
it's like the myth of hell
actually is connected to all this.
Siberian mythology says that the Northwest
was the lands of the dead,
the lands of the specters, the lands of the ghouls.
So our race memory's filled with this
and unfortunately a antipathy to nature itself
came with that package.
We are so young, that was only,
some people say 50 or 13,000,
depends on who you're listening to
but even if it was 50,000 years ago
that's a blink of the eye, historically.
So we are not even in the beginning of the recovery
of that, to that trauma.
Meaning that the mysterium's wound,
the wound that created the mysterium
and the ego is very raw.
The growth of technology comes out of that,
the denigration of the family, the denigration of nature's
all a product of all of this.
And an attempt to control
our consciousness, so to speak.
Yeah, that's what it is
because it's fear and fear creates defenses.
Yes, and fear of the wildness
of the natural law.
Right, inner anxiety.
And by extension of that
as we started the conversation,
the feminine aspect of ourselves
represents that same regenerative wildness
that there's a need to control.
That's right, the feminine so called
is the only part of us, that remnant that's left.
It makes the artist, it makes the poets,
it makes the musicians.
They're are the ones who live on that little twilight zone,
the ones like Roger Waters and the Wall said,
they stand near the wall,
they're the little artistes, you know.
There are those few who are still sort of ambivalent
and their sensitive and eccentric and all of that.
To answer your question of whether I'm optimistic or not,
is this, yes, because we are in the process of healing.
We have serious forces
that don't want that healing to take place
but given time and time has it's cycles,
the 2012 is an expression of one right of passage,
leading to another, you see,
just like there's another one
of these various astrological periods.
These are cusp points,
the one that's happening now is global
and it's very powerful
because Pluto is directly involved in it
as is the sun.
They know this so they denigrated it recently, Pluto,
to some rock floating in space.
Yes, I noticed that.
What planet are we on?
(laughing)
Demote the planet if it gives you trouble.
There's a song by Black Sabbath that said,
"They'll tell you black is really white,
"the moon is just the sun at night."
Tomorrow they'll be telling us the sun,
it's the moon, right.
That was funny actually, yeah.
But that's an art living, an art
expression of this fear of the plutonic, here.
Oh, I have no unconscious, I've got no dirt,
there's no skeletons in my closet,
forget it psychology's not important.
But you heard it in that version, you know
to say Pluto, Pluto's Shiva
and you're gonna meet Shiva
because Shakti's protected
and there's rights and rituals to go through
before you enter that.
Study all the mythology, study the Arthurian legend,
study the Finn cycle, study the Zen, the trials.
We get it easy today,
study all the rites of passage that the neophyte
needed to go through
before you could even have one modicum of it.
Right, I mean the bards had to memorize
1,000s of pieces of poetry and history and lineage
to perfection, including the pauses of how you pause
between the sentences.
They had to play the harp until their fingers bled.
They had to know the tree, plant the tree,
nurture the tree and cut the wood that made the harp.
They had to tune the harp
according to the Hertzian frequencies of the planets.
And what do we have to do?
We buy it on eBay,
(laughing)
we buy it from Taiwan, ready made.
But what did we give up
that they gained in that process?
We lost our connection to nature
and we lost the fact that death is in life.
See when you have direct participation
in any thing creative you die
as well as be born.
You can't be fooled by some priest
who's promising you a bromide after you're dead,
within the space of a breath you've died.
The breath, you die, you're reborn again.
When you have an intimate, like farmers,
anyone connected to the sun, the women,
everyone connected to the cycle of nature
is intimately aware that life and death
is in every breath and every moment.
We live in the simulacra
where death is just something
we don't even need to think about,
it's not with us anymore.
Just watch, you know, Judge Dredd or Demolition Man
or Equilibrium, is to you know,
I don't want to think those evil thoughts,
give me something to take,
give me an injection, I feel bad today.
You know that George Lucas movie,
it was Francis Ford Coppola, THX 1138, right.
I feel bad, I'm not feeling good today--
give me a drug.
Give me more drugs.
These darker emotions,
it's been a mass of psychology and misrepresentation,
even the words anger and violence
have all been misinterpreted to us, misinformed,
misapplied by psychopaths who themselves
can't go there, never will, never.
And if I may, I'll give you a small anecdote of why,
sociopaths are known historically to never change
because in order to change
they will have to visit all the pain an d suffering
that they've caused to every single individual
that they've harmed.
Do you remember in certain mystical traditions
they even make it a rule that you go back
and say sorry to the people that you've hurt,
it's based on this, whether it's good or bad
we can argue later.
The idea is that the sociopath
will feel in the dead of night,
after many years of psychology, or whatever,
even two seconds of revelation in their car one day.
I don't know what the scenario might be,
but the sociopath to change his sociopaths ways
would have to, it's not negotiable,
they would have to visit all the suffering
they've caused to everyone
that they have maliciously hurt and deceived
throughout their whole life.
Obviously impossible, it never happens.
Tedious process and one that mathematically
that odds are they're not going to do that.
Right, so when we know that
we understand why they stay the way they are,
it's too painful.
Now the more aware person is willing to go through it.
William Blake said how can we have gone through hell
and emerged unconsumed, right?
The shaman knows, he has to go through that hell of hells
and if you watch the movie, Hell Boy,
there's always our chemical traditions in this.
V for Vendetta where he purposely puts the girl
into the shadow gallery
and puts her through this unbelievably painful,
deathly, morbid experience
so she can be liberated and reinitiated into her,
because there's that grey area again,
you're not going to get it until you meet V or Shiva
or the world or yourself
or in my tradition it's Herne, Cernunnos, right.
In every tradition we have this being, Merlin,
I don't know who it might be.
You're gonna meet the shaman,
you're gonna meet that guy
who's gonna lead you through that gate.
And even that gate is still a metaphor for something
that happens biologically and so forth and so on.
But until you go through that divorce
nothing will change.
Now the only thing that makes a difference now
is that instead of this being some little private thing
that you're doing in your life with your teacher,
the whole world is having to go through this now.
It's moving
all through the surface of humanity.
Right so the whole planet
is being given this sort of opportunity
to go through this or at least some stage of it,
I never rule out the individual work,
you will always have to do it individually.
But many of the levels
and maybe we should be thankful for that even,
there's something weird about that,
maybe it's because the planet Uranus energy is,
Uranus rules groups.
So where there's Uranian energy
there will be a collectivism, with a small c, movement.
I think that these conferences are very much part of that.
Yes, and well if it can support the individual
going through this experience, yeah.
Yes, so I think there's that,
there are certain protections and help
and guidelines.
But remember the doctor doesn't get into bed with a patient,
the person who shows you the map
can't walk the landscape for you.
And that's the beauty, that's the journey.
So as the psychologists said
it will mean a reintegration with the unconscious mind,
they're right.
It will mean a re-understanding of what the ego is.
It will mean a re-visioning of what masculinity
and femininity is, in it's purest sense.
That's not the same as male and female.
It will mean a falling in love with the word no,
it's my favorite word, it has so much power, right.
It also means discovering that death is in life,
every second, every minute
and embrace it, love it, love it's action on your life.
By the way, it's gonna happen to you
whether you like it or not.
You can resist it as much as you want
and then you'll have the cancers
and then you'll have the other, harder permutations of it
until you learn to go with it.
Remember the very final scenes in the movie Dune,
by Frank, well Frank Herbert wrote the book
but they made the movie?
Uh huh.
The very last scene is iconic for me
because just as the Sting character
is about to knife the prince you hear his voice saying,
"and I shall bend like a reed in the wind."
And immediately there's this Bruce Lee's zip,
right, flip and whoom, just like magic he turns it around.
And that's that mutability and flexibility
and sort of an Taoist, Zen way,
the Hopis say let go of the banks of the river,
it's alright.
Let go of the oars, the boat knows where it's going
and certainly the river knows where's it's going.
I love that saying.
We spoke about this before, right.
So this is the challenge that people need to let go.
My message to them is when you realize it's a lie
it's easy to let go.
If you offer the monkey,
you know cause in India the monkeys,
they come and they try to put their hand
in the clay pots to grab the food
and they're so greedy that even when people
are beating them with sticks they won't let go.
They'll just hang on, no matter how many--
Right, and their fists can't make it
back through the hole.
When you bring a bunch of more gooey looking sweets
the hand releases immediately and it goes for the thing.
That's all it is, realize that you
are holding onto to something that
is absolutely rotten.
It's again in the movie, Dune,
where the priestess, the sorceress
makes the prince put his hand in the fear box,
you know to scare the bejesus out of him
and it's all in the head. right?
Yeah.
So when we realize that what we're avoiding
is self-food, which is golden, which is wonderful,
which is who you are and who you're meant to be
the hand will release from the false.
But trying to jack-boot it out,
philosophize it out, cajole people,
that will never work
because that's not the way the hard-wiring is.
You offer something better, detach from this--
The gooey plate of sweets.
Yeah, the gooey plate of sweets
which is the self-food and it's Mytha,
in Indian they call it Mythi, Soma of a different kind,
the real thing, right?
Not renewal will come.
And in the Vada's it's there,
it's in the Vadas it's there, it's down under the tree
he finds himself and he finds that the rivers that flow
are his breath, the trees that grow are his eyes,
there's a whole metaphor
where he becomes one with everything around him.
And to use like Drumbalo,
Methusadex parlance, the marcaba, aura
is not your personal aura, nature herself
and all the universe is your personal aura.
You own it, it's you.
She belongs to you, you belong to it,
that's the symbiosis of chemical wedding.
When we realize that's where we're heading towards,
automatically you're Truman
and you just open the door in the sky
and go, take it easy guys,
you know your control doesn't work anymore
because I've been immune.
I'm immune now to every element of the control,
you can't control me because I'm immune.
Bruce Lee would say,
"When I become so invulnerable to your kicks, I've won."
It's a principle of Aikido,
it's the principle of Ji Kun Do,
you become so immune to the virus
that the virus dies of it's own thing.
The parasite drops off because there's no power over you.
Fighting the virus is exactly what the virus wants.
Remember in Fifth Element
the more you shoot at the star,
the bigger it becomes.
They're telling us this, the more you,
in Zardoz, the beast we've conjured in our midst,
why did we conjure the beast in our midst?
Instead of fighting it, you ask why did it get created.
So let go of the banks, let go of the reeds
on the banks, let the river take us.
Yeah, right and not everyone can do that.
I'm no, I'm not the fool, I'm a realist,
a lot of people can't do that.
My advice is don't try to save them
because you'll be dragged down with them.
I really mean this, I know it's horrible to say
and people don't like it.
No, it's true.
It's not gonna become a living fact
because the vampiristic kind of person
who's not done their homework, spiritually,
meaning sociopathic kind of creature,
the first thing they're gonna grab onto you
like a Klingon on Captain Kirk's foot,
dragging him into the abyss along with himself.
And going back to women,
we can be really bad at trying to pick up anybody
that needs that.
Everybody can be.
Everybody can be,
so we don't need to be doing that.
I'm really clear on that it took a few years
to really get it, but I get now,
there have been enough signs,
there's been enough energy to move us in this direction
that we need to understand it's up to us.
We really need to in essence
transform ourselves first, right?
That's it.
Yeah, but to do that
there's a divorce required to dispense
with other teachers in the heart-sense,
they're only guides and remember
what they speak is their truth.
No matter how holy it sounds
or how demonic it sounds,
one thing you must know it's their reality.
They're speaking for themselves,
they are guides, but they can't walk the topography for you,
you must do the adventure yourself.
And as Professor Tolkien showed in his masterwork,
even the lowest rung of the ladder,
the most insignificant person,
can do what the highest sorcerer's and wizards cannot do.
So it was a metaphor
and he was saying don't beat yourself up.
Realize that, because remember in the story,
when they're chosen to carry the ring
they can't believe it.
They're thinking there's a mistake here,
you got the wrong phone number here.
Yet, he's saying no, no, you are the little ones
who can get through.
So it's a very complex metaphor
but it really represents the fact
that the lowest person in society
as long as they realize who they are,
their journey is also a realization that,
remember because I've said in all my work,
do not think that this is something external to you.
All these challenges and obstacles that come up
are there because it's part of your journey.
It's not like, oh I didn't realize this was happening to me,
I've just learned that there's a big brother
operating in the world, what am I gonna do about it?
It's not an external activity,
divorced from your personal life.
Oh boy, I wish I could change the channel.
This is your spiritual life,
this is the matrix of control into which you were born,
you're to find the answer to that Gordian knot
you're to break the matrix if you can
and instead of, my message is,
instead of going outward you must turn within.
That's where the secret is,
it's within your own self that the secret lies.
Michael, this wasn't the conversation
I had anticipated happening with you
when we first met a couple days ago
but I am thrilled because this has been beautiful.
Thank you. Always good to talk to you.
And vice a versa.
Thanks to you.
For more of Michael's work you can go to tarotscope.com
for his vast array of knowledge on esoteric subjects
from occult astrology to defining the dynamics
behind the architects of control.
You might also want to watch our previous interviews
with him on the Irish Origins of Civilization.
To continue looking into the re-emergence of the feminine,
you might also enjoy my interviews with Dr. Christine Page
and Lucia Rene on unplugging the patriarchy.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(mellow Celtic music)